AV-101592 Update index.md and upgrade guide (#330)
couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella: docs/guides/1.5.0-upgrade-guide.md

---
layout: "couchbase-capella"
page_title: "Couchbase Capella Provider 1.5.0: Upgrade and Information Guide"
sidebar_current: "docs-couchbase-capella-guides-150-upgrade-guide"
description: |-
Couchbase Capella Provider 1.5.0: Upgrade and Information Guide
---

# Couchbase Capella Provider 1.5.0: Upgrade and Information Guide

New features in 1.5.0

## New Features
* Free Tier Cluster [`couchbase-capella_free_tier_cluster`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/free_tier_cluster)
* Free Tier Bucket [`couchbase-capella_free_tier_bucket`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/free_tier_bucket)
* Free Tier App Service [`couchbase-capella_free_tier_appservice`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/free_tier_app_service)
* Free Tier Cluster On/Off [`couchbase-capella_free_tier_cluster_on_off`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/couchbasecloud/couchbase-capella/latest/docs/resources/free_tier_cluster_on_off)

## Changes

There are no deprecations as part of this release.

> 1.5.0 includes new free tier resources, documentation and general improvements, and bug fixes. See the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for more specific information.

Reviewer: Should changelog be capitalized? Is there a reason for that?

```suggestion
1.5.0 includes new free tier resources, documentation and general improvements, and bug fixes. For more information, see the [Changelog](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).
```

Author: I'm keeping it capitalized as that's how the file is named and what we have followed throughout the files for referencing

## Free Tier Cluster

Use the new `free_tier_cluster` resource to create and manage a free tier operational cluster. This is a Single Node cluster that runs only the Data, Query, Index and Search Services. Only 1 free tier operational cluster is available per organization.

```
resource "couchbase-capella_free_tier_cluster" "new_free_tier_cluster" {
  organization_id = var.organization_id
  project_id      = var.project_id
  name            = "New free tier cluster"
  description     = "New free tier test cluster for multiple services"
  cloud_provider = {
    type   = "aws"
    region = "us-east-2"
    cidr   = "10.1.0.0/16"
  }
}
```

> For more information, see the [free tier cluster examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/free_tier_cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [free tier operational cluster examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/free_tier_cluster).
```

Author: I'll keep it as free tier cluster as it is addressed the same in the mgmt api and everywhere else, it is understood and given that its an operational cluster by default

Reviewer: We use "free tier operational cluster" very consistently in the docs. But I do see how we have terminology inconsistencies in the Management API docs vs the Capella documentation. Something to discuss with PM.

## Free Tier Bucket

> Use the new `free_tier_bucket` resource to create and manage buckets within a free tier cluster. This is a Couchbase bucket where only the name and memory quota is configurable. Other bucket properties use default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the new `free_tier_bucket` resource to create and manage buckets within a free tier operational cluster. This is a Couchbase bucket where only the name and memory quota is configurable. Other bucket properties use default values.
```

```
resource "couchbase-capella_free_tier_bucket" "new_free_tier_bucket" {
  organization_id         = var.organization_id
  project_id             = var.project_id
  cluster_id             = var.cluster_id
  name                   = "test_bucket"
  memory_allocation_in_mb = 250
}
```

For more information, see the [free tier bucket examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/free_tier_bucket).

## Free Tier App Service

> Use the new `free_tier_app_service` resource to set up and manage App Services for your free tier cluster. This is a 1 node cluster which can only be linked to a free tier cluster. It can only be turned off/on when the linked free tier cluster is turned off/on.

Reviewer: This said "cluster" originally, but considering this is for `free_tier_app_service`, I assumed and changed it to be App Service.

```suggestion
Use the new `free_tier_app_service` resource to set up and manage App Services for your free tier operational cluster. This is a Single Node node App Service that can only be linked to a free tier operational cluster. You can only turn off and on the App Service when the linked free tier cluster is also turned off and on.
```

```
resource "couchbase-capella_free_tier_app_service" "new_free_tier_app_service" {
  organization_id = var.organization_id
  project_id      = var.project_id
  cluster_id      = var.cluster_id
  name            = "free-tier-app-service"
  description     = "Free Tier App Service created by terraform"
}
```

> For more information, see the [free tier app service examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/free_tier_appservice).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [free tier App Service examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/free_tier_appservice).
```

## Free Tier Cluster On/Off

> Use the new `free_tier_cluster_on_off` resource to turn clusters on or off on demand. Turning the free tier cluster on or off will also turn on or off the linked app services, if any.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the new `free_tier_cluster_on_off` resource to turn clusters on or off on demand. Turning your free tier operational cluster on or off will also turn on or off any linked App Service.
```

> Use the new `free_tier_cluster_on_off` resource to turn clusters on or off on demand. Turning your free tier operational cluster on or off will also turn on or off any linked App Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the new `free_tier_cluster_on_off` resource to turn your free tier operational cluster on or off as needed. When you turn your free tier cluster on or off, any linked App Service will be turned on or off as well. 
```

```
resource "couchbase-capella_free_tier_cluster_on_off" "new_free_tier_cluster_on_off" {
  organization_id = var.organization_id
  project_id      = var.project_id
  cluster_id      = var.cluster_id
  state           = "on"
}
```

> For more information, see the [free tier cluster on/off examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/free_tier_cluster_on_off).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [free tier operational cluster On/Off examples](https://github.com/couchbasecloud/terraform-provider-couchbase-capella/tree/main/examples/free_tier_cluster_on_off).
```

Author: I'll keep it as free tier cluster as it is addressed the same in the mgmt api and everywhere else, it is understood and given that its an operational cluster by default

Reviewer: For the 'o', it was mainly to be consistent with what we have in docs and the Management API reference. But we can always re-discuss this when we assess the rest of the comments in this PR another time.
